hi guys in this video I'm going to
explain the difference between a hard
disk and RAM and I'm going to start this
with a simple exam let's say I want to
make a salad now all my ingredients are
in my fridge so I'm going to draw a
fridge
there's my fridge and it contains all
the ingredients I need for myself
there's the door
now and I can do make the salad in in
the fridge but that that would be very
messy and it's not very efficient so the
best way to do is to make a salad is to
get the stuff out of the fridge and use
some kind of workspace let's say a table
where I can mix and combined ingredient
into some great salad and the same thing
is with your computer and that fridge
would be your hard-disk
that's where everything is stored you
programs your documents in deputy and
that workspace is your RAM so when I
want to make my salad what I need I need
to load the ingredients from the fridge
onto that workspace and that's the same
thing what you do when you load a
program where you open up a document you
double click on something and what
happens is that something that program
or that document gets loaded into Ram so
and then you work and all you work isn't
that in that workspace in that RAM same
thing with myself I'm mixing my salad
here and you know mixing all the
ingredients together and putting more
with that bowl and all of that is taking
place in RAM and obviously the bigger my
ram is the more ingredients I can I can
have on that on that table same thing is
with your computer the more RAM you got
the more programs you can sign
they run or you can run really big
programs like big engineering programs
or photo editing programs require a lot
of RAM way more than let's say a simple
text editor and it's the same thing here
I mean if I want to do like Assad for 40
people
I need a much bigger table than than
that one so and so I've done my salad
that you know make a great salad and I
want to save it for this evening so what
do I do
I can't leave it out and open because
it's going to go bad so I need to put it
back in the fridge and that's the same
thing what we do without computer work
what when I built that document or that
spreadsheet and I need it for some other
day I need to save it
why because RAM cannot hold my work long
term Ram can only store information as
long as the computer switched on once
you switch off your computer or if you
computer crashes everything in RAM is
lost that's why they call it volatile
memory no mechanic it cannot hold your
stuff for long
that's why you got to regularly save
your stuff to your hard disk what what
it means is a copy of your work is being
sent to the hard disk where it's safe
that's why they called hard disks
persistent memory because they store
your stuff long-term so and then that's
what I'm doing myself what I you know I
put it in my fridge and the same thing
is with the work you put your work or
your save your work to your hard disk
the only difference is here I'm taking
that salad the original salad and
placing it on the owner in my fridge
with computers you're putting a copy the
original stuff the original work gets
deleted once you switch off your
computer next time your study computer
and you want to you know work on your
document again you're opening that copy
of your document you save the previous
time the regional stuff is always lost
and once you switch off your computer or
god forbid
once a computer crashes